a large part of what I do is the study
of languages languages philosophy
political science and how those pieces
fit together sometimes with a bit of
history some of the more contemporary
focus sometimes an ancient one etc so I
do observe oddities in the English
language closely and sometimes you know
the political nuances of how things are
said in Chinese Japanese lotion you name
it I've dealt with politics for First
Nations for Cree for indigenous people
in Canada and other groups so the full
list of languages have had to deal with
is pretty long and my studies in many of
those areas did ultimately end in
failure
ie there are languages I would have
liked to have become fluent in but I
didn't have the opportunity at the end
to attain fluency it's interesting to me
the subtle shift in meaning when people
use the word expect in English in the
following questioning way what did you
expect me to do we already shifted from
a sincere question of ethics to a
strange category of excuse making well
after September 11th what did you expect
george w bush to do isn't that a very
different question from asking do you
think he did the right thing
isn't it a different question from
asking what's the best possible thing he
could have done what's the worst
possible thing you could have done well
in what ways was he right in what ways
was he wrong
doesn't have to be george w bush it can
be Tony Blair it can be francois
hollande
after the the terrorist attacks in Paris
not so long ago you could say you know
what was the best thing he could have
done what was the correct correct thing
of the decisions he made which ones were
right which ones wrong those are all
meaningful questions but as soon as we
start by asking what did you expect to
do what do you expect what do you expect
it's interesting to me because there's
nothing in the wording of the question
that makes it clear and yet in a subtle
sense the nature of the demand has
totally shifted into excuse making
so this fellow who is slightly famous
because he is the father of Nina and
Randa who are themselves slightly famous
for appearing in a Taco Bell commercial
and for playing the guitar and for being
vegan and for giving advice on diet and
health and other things um this guy uses
the name veg source he has asked what
did you expect me to do now he backs
that up by of course giving unreasonable
examples of what someone might have
expect what what did you expect me to do
what did you expect George Bush to do
just save the world what use pictures of
you just wave his hands and make
everything better what did you expect
George Bush to do after Hurricane
Katrina now that could be a really
meaningful question again it would never
be phrased that way let's make a list of
the ten policy decisions george w bush
should have taken after hurricane
katrina let's examine the policy
decisions he actually did make and
decide which were good which were bad
which were optimal which were suboptimal
what would have been optimal or ideal in
retrospect those are meaningful
questions but as soon as we framework
what did you expect george bush to do
it's funny how the whole game changes
huh
ok veg source what did i expect you to
do and what did you actually do one of
my fans wrote to you a supporter of mine
on patreon and he sent me the
screenshots of your replies basically he
sent you two messages maybe maybe three
maybe send more after but I remember too
where he was basically saying to you
look this thing that happened in
Chiangmai is a big deal you know what do
you think about it you know asking you
to take it seriously he was not asking
you to make a video about me I've never
asked that of you nobody asked of you my
fan did ask I didn't ask nobody has
suggested that so you say what do you
expect me to do and then to supply as a
suggestion what you imagine I might fix
for you being that you make a video
about me which you've now done
incidentally pat yourself on the back um
no but when my fan asked you about this
your reply was completely dismissive
completely contemptuous you pretended
you didn't know who I was whereas he
clearly did I know you've watched some
of the videos on my channel
one of your recent videos actually
includes a clip from one of my videos
from my channel which is fine I'm not
complaining but I mean it's I can tell
you know that that's where you got that
from um you know me I know you when my
fan asked you about this your reply was
completely contemptuous completely
dismissive and completely backing and
supporting durianrider so the questions
you're getting now are not at a left
field whether they're from my fans or
your fans or anyone else people are a
bit shocked and appalled that you
continued supporting durianrider at a
time when he threatened to have a gang
of thugs beat me up in the cheap streets
of Chiangmai and yes that threat was
initially made indirectly he was a he
was addressing the people who could be
those thugs he was calling for his
supporters the people who you know
supposedly what would would do his
bidding but soon enough me I know hours
later he was sending those threats to me
directly which everyone here has seen
the screenshots I can give the link to
the video below in case anyone doesn't
already know about this this is not my
imagination this has all been documented
etc now um it's not a question what I
expected you to do I don't have the
expectations on you you could have
responded in any way you could have
responded with sincere concern like oh
boy a friend of mine during Ryder
someone who is your friend is resorting
to street violence to threats of having
a gang of thugs beat someone up in the
streets you could have been concerned
you could have been interested to look
into it you could have said well gee I
don't know this is the first I've heard
about it whether or not it was the first
year but boy that's serious enough that
I should look into it that's what you
you could have done someone might have
expected that of you someone might have
asked it of you that might have been
morally good or at least morally neutral
that might have been responsible what
sighs like if anyone anyone I knew on
the internet somebody knew closely
someone personally someone I had this
kind of relationship like such as you've
had with durianrider with or or a
stranger if I found out that that
stranger had done
during rider did to me I'd be concerned
it would change my opinion of them
morally forever and you know we've come
close to that you guys may or may not
know you mean the light twins made some
videos where they were kind of making
fun of vegan cheetah and it sounds like
especially if you quoted out of context
it sounds like they're threatening to go
beat him up in the streets you know in
terms of their turn of phrase no I knew
that wasn't what they were doing because
I talked to them I actually talked to
them before that video was made public
or they talked to me both whatever you
want to say and I remember they you know
they completely reassured me that what
they were talking about was a charity
boxing match something that you know
promotes veganism and you know promote
them promote vegan cheetah it could be
fun and from my perspective if those
guys ever do have that boxing match you
know I think they'll be the best of
friends six months later or six minutes
later there's no real hostility there's
no malice but definitely if they hadn't
talked to me first I might have been
concerned based on what they said in
that video that they were actually
talking about about assaulting someone
like jumping someone in an alleyway
something with malice something with
danger again there are two guys they're
not a gang guys what what during Ryder
was threatening was strictly speaking
gang violence there was a gang of people
beating you up in the streets and he was
refusing to meet with me under any other
circumstances okay to this day during
Ryder has never written to me privately
all the communications were public all
public messages the only private message
I ever sent to him the only thing that
was not you know you guys have seen the
screenshots the only thing that wasn't
on a public forum whether you know
there's one message back and forth on
patreon these other things were on
Facebook or what-have-you
the one message I sent to him that was
accompanied by a screenshot that you
guys have seen one of the screenshots in
the video was don't act like it's hard
to find me and the screenshot said
something you all guys have already
heard me say was look if you want to
talk to me by email you can talk to me
now if you want to talk to me by Skype
we can make it happen in five minutes
but if you want to get in a boxing ring
you know that's cool you want to catch a
fade we can do that too you know all
I've seen the only private message of
ever since that guy was don't act like
it's hard to find
okay veg source for you to say to me
that I can fight my own battles [ __ ] you
that's disrespect and you're in no
position to disrespect me in this okay
you [ __ ] up okay nobody was asked to
make a video no he's asked me to say or
do anything but you have just given an
apologia for why you and during writer
have been friends still are friends why
you backed him when he did things that
were deeply immoral and disturbing
things that be disturbing for anyone
knew what durianrider did to me what
went down in Chiangmai would be
disturbing if during rider was just some
loser who fixed bikes at the local bike
shop you know it okay but he's not
durianrider describes himself as the
most influential vegan activist in the
world okay he describes himself as a
serious political leader and you know
that he has power over people some
people relate to him as a cult leader I
don't even blame him for that
I don't but he has a cult-like authority
over some people I've met sometimes I've
seen some of them face to face not
everyone there are other people who
affirmed it's just light-hearted
entertainment there people who don't
take it that seriously there are people
from it's just weight loss advice there
are people for whom obviously it's a
joke and they just laugh at everything
he does but yes during writer does have
followers who hang on his every word he
does have followers where it's very
believable they'd get together and beat
someone up under exactly those
circumstances and when I was in
Chiangmai okay so was this a credible
threat I think I haven't told this this
story before there was one morning when
I woke up I woke up real early maybe
maybe 5:15 a.m. 5:20 AM something like
that and I opened up my window and the
window in this apartment building you
could see outside but you could also see
through two windows into the hallway so
the hallway where people would wait for
the elevator in that building
so it's an exterior window open it up
but I'm actually seeing partly and into
the hallway the whole way in front of my
own apartment building in front of my
own apartment inside inside the
apartment building open up the window
and there's a skinny dude standing there
the bike helmet skin-tight green you
know bike jersey on and the guy has his
cell phone out and you know he's idly
you know paging through emails or
something on his cell phone
and you know in that split second I
thought oh they're here and you know
what I didn't feel scared I didn't feel
angry I actually feel happy I was like
oh so it's not all just [ __ ] after
all like it's 5:20 a.m. or something and
they're actually at my door we're
actually gonna do this now of course it
turned out it was a completely you know
I I thought it you know I Dell this in
your mind takes a fraction of a second a
split second later the guy was wearing a
green biking jersey but it didn't say
vegan he was just some guy who woke up
early to go long-distance cycling or
whatever and you know he was just
waiting for the elevator he got in the
elevator and he left he wasn't coming to
my apartment he just happened to be
right in front of my apartment that bone
went open at the window
you know during writer made all this
noise of wanting to know where I live so
he could come to my door and beat me up
in reality I walked past the front door
of their most popular vegan restaurant
were all those guys hung and I talked to
those guys some of them in front of that
restaurant so they knew where I lived it
was no mystery it was not hard to find
me and as you know I posted open lasted
okay I'm gonna do a karaoke night if
they want to show up and beat me up or
they want to show up and just talk to me
they can do that so I made myself
available in every possible way whether
it was on the street at the karaoke bar
in my apartment building in the boxing
ring whatever I said see me when you see
me don't act like it's hard to find me
okay you want to tell me I can fight my
own fights that's not the question okay
that is not the question okay and I I
can relate I could have been in your
position what would I have done if the
light twins they're not crazy but let's
say the light twins were crazy and they
really were threatening to beat up
cheetah on the streets which again if
you take it out of context kind of sort
of sounds like that's where they were
going in like one of their videos they
didn't really mean it bla bla bla
whatever okay no for me I would take
that seriously I take it seriously not
just because it's a threat against a
person but because it's the kind of
threat that really can discredit
veganism and it especially discredits
this little demi-monde we're all sharing
here right we're all people who talk
about veganism on YouTube
right I got the same thing to say to you
veggie veggies I've got the same thing
to say to you don't act like it's hard
to find me okay friend of mine I did a
podcast with the other day a lawyer does
ecological law environmental law cases
in Washington DC
he showed me a list recently he showed
me a list of how many people who talk
about veganism on YouTube can pull 1000
viewers per video ok there were only 212
names on that list ok so the number of
people like us the number of people in
this devimon
it's a small circle of people I don't
expect you to care about me but you know
what when you look at that list it gets
smaller and smaller if you take out the
people who just do cooking videos
nothing wrong with that but it's
different from what we do people who
just do makeup videos people who just do
swimming at the beach videos when you
get down to substantive content actually
you and me and durianrider we're in a
small pond we're in a small circle okay
this little world we share it's a small
world do I expect you to be concerned
when a friend and colleague of yours in
that small world sharing this small
ecosystem threaten someone else with
exactly that kind of violence credible
threat we're both in Chiangmai I'm
actually out there on those streets in
Chiangmai I'm meeting those people and
faces and I'm facing them yeah I expect
you to be concerned I expect you to say
something velar than what you did say
for your own professional reputation for
dirty and writers reputation for the
reputation of vegans with the future of
this whole thing yes I expected better
than you do you want to know what I
expected of you yes I expected some
level of human interest I expect you not
to make lame-ass excuses for durianrider
I expected you now not to make lame-ass
excuses for yourself